Title:Building a kiosk computer with Chrome
Date: 12-26-2016 09:10
category:security
tags:programming, security, chrome, kiosk
meta:programming, security, chrome, kiosk

Building a Kiosk where Google Chrome is running in full screen and user
interaction with the system are reduced to the minimum.

<!-- PELICAN_END_SUMMARY -->

## Debian installation

This will be pass as most of you should be able to install a basic Debian
system. Just set lvm encryption, strong password for root and for the user and
mostly do not install useless program, check only the program you need (ssh for
instance).

## Installing the packages

We will need a few more packages to be able to run things:

  * X (display server)
  * A light window manager able to run Chrome in full screen
  * Google Chrome
  * sudo to be able to impersonate the user

The first operations will be done using root as the sudo command is not
installed yet.

First we add the Google Chrome repository and the key to check the package
integrity:

  * Edit the file `/etc/apt/source.list` and add the following repository:

`deb http://dl.google.com/linux/chrome/deb/ stable main`

  * Execute the following command:

`wget -qO- https://dl-ssl.google.com/linux/linux_signing_key.pub | apt-key add -`

Then we need to update the package list and install all necessary packages:

    :::text
    apt-get update
    apt-get install --no-install-recommends xorg openbox sudo google-chrome-stable

Without the `--no-install-recommends`parameter some useless packages will be
installed.

## Load Chrome in kiosk at startup

We need a script that will configure and load Chrome at the X server startup.
As we don't want any data saved between each session we will delete the Chrome
profile each time the script is used. Moreover it is in this script that we
choose the starting page of Chrome.

Create and edit the script:

    sudo vi /opt/kiosk.sh

The file content is the following:

    #!/bin/bash

    xset -dpms
    xset s off
    openbox-session &
    while true; do rm -rf ~/.{config,cache}/google-chrome/
      google-chrome --kiosk --no-first-run  'http://localhost'
    done

Give the execution right to the script:

    :::text
    sudo chmod +x /opt/kiosk.sh

In order to start the X server and launch the `kiosk.sh` script, we need to
create a systemd service.

In order to to that, create and edit the file `/etc/systemd/system/kiosk.service`:

    sudo vi /etc/systemd/system/kiosk.service

The content of the file is the following:

    [Unit]
    Description=Kiosk

    [Service]
    Type=oneshot
    ExecStart=/usr/bin/sudo –u user /usr/bin/startx /etc/X11/Xsession /opt/kiosk.sh --

    [Install]
    WantedBy=multi-user.target

We need to enable the script with the following command:

    :::text
    systemctl enable kiosk

To run the script use the following command:

    :::text
    systemctl start kiosk »

You can also reboot in order to check that the script is automatically launch at
startup.

If you need a terminal, you can use <ctrl>+<alt>+<F2-9> to get one.

## Automatically mount USB key

If your users need to copy data from the machine this paragraph is for you.
Otherwise this is just informational.

As our users don't have a shell access they are unable to mount USB key.
Therefore we need to automatically mount them.

We need the `usbmount` package:

    apt-get install --no-install-recommends usbmount

The USB keys will be automatically mount into `/mnt/usbX`.In order for the user
to have the permissions to right on it we need to add its `uid` and `gid` in the
`usbmount` configuration.

Edit the file `/etc/usbmount/usbmount.conf` and the user `uid` and `guid` to the
following line (the `uid` and `gid` can be found in `/etc/passwd`):

    FS_MOUNTOPTIONS=" "

The line would be something like the following:

    FS_MOUNTOPTIONS="uid=1000,gid=1000"

## Sources

 * [https://thepcspy.com/read/building-a-kiosk-computer-ubuntu-1404-chrome/](https://thepcspy.com/read/building-a-kiosk-computer-ubuntu-1404-chrome/)
 * [https://lukas.zapletalovi.com/2013/08/execute-command-during-start-with-systemd.html](https://lukas.zapletalovi.com/2013/08/execute-command-during-start-with-systemd.html)
