Title:Let's encrypt certificate for offline servers with OVH DNS
Date: 12-27-2016 11:58
category:security
tags:programming, SSL, let's encrypt, security
meta:programming, SSL, let's encrypt, security

[Let's encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/) provide free and easy SSL certificates. Nevertheless it need to verify that
you own the machine. In order to do that we usually use HTTP verification with
the .well-known directory.

But sometime our servers are not reachable from the internet. Therefore the HTTP
validation is not possible. Hopefully there is another way the [acme](https://letsencrypt.github.io/acme-spec/) challenge can be
validated: [DNS validation](https://letsencrypt.github.io/acme-spec/#rfc.section.7.4).

In this post we will see how we can generate [Let's encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/) SSL certificate for
offline machine with DNS validation for domains hosts by [OVH](https://ovh.com).

<!-- PELICAN_END_SUMMARY -->

## Certificate generation

### Requirements

 * A domain name with its DNS hosted by [OVH](https://ovh.com)
 * curl (sudo apt-get install curl)
 * Python 2 or 3 and pip (sudo apt-get install python-pip)
 * python-ovh (pip install ovh)
 * dehydrated (git clone https://github.com/lukas2511/dehydrated)
 * OVH hook (git clone https://github.com/antoiner77/letsencrypt.sh-ovh)

### API Key generation

We need API keys in order to use the hook script for the DNS validation. For
that, register the application on [OVH API](https://eu.api.ovh.com/createApp/).

We get two elements from the website:
* APP_KEY
* APP_SECRET

We need to put them in our `ovh.conf` file in the OVH hook script:

    :::text
    [default]
    ; general configuration: default endpoint
    endpoint=ovh-eu

    [ovh-eu]
    ; configuration specific to 'ovh-eu' endpoint
    application_key=APP_KEY
    application_secret=APP_SECRET
    ; uncomment following line when writing a script application
    ; with a single consumer key.
    ;consumer_key=MA_CLEFS

Now we need to generate the use token in order to validation our keys (you may
need to had execution permissions to the script):

    ./ovhdns.py --init

We get an other link where we need to authenticate one more time. When it is
done just press the `ENTER` key.

The script indicate the user token to insert in the `ovh.conf` file. Be sure to
uncomment the line by deleting the `;` at the beginning of the line.

The configuration file will be needed in the `dehydrated` folder, let's just
create a symlink:

    ln -s /home/user/letsencrypt.sh-ovh/ovh.conf /home/user/dehydrated/ovh.conf

The hook script configuration is finished, now let's configure the `dehydrated`
script.

### dehydrated configuration

In the domains.txt file, indicate the certificates that you want to generate.
Each line will be a certificate but one certificate can be valid for several
domains. For instance, the following configuration will generate two certificates
each for two domains.

    example.org www.example.org
    gitlab.example.com wikimedia.example.com

### Certificates generation

Just launch the dehydrated script (you may need to had execution permission):

    ./dehydrated -c -t dns-01 -k '/home/user/letsencrypt.sh-ovh/ovhdns.py'

 * `-c` (re)generate certificates, will renew them if they expire in less than one month
 * `-t dns-01` use the DNS challenge for acme validation
 * `-k` use specific script for hook

The certificates are stored in `/home/user/dehydrated/certs/`.


## Automatically renew certificates

In order to automatically renew certificate:

Create a symlink in order to use the certificate and the necessary key. This
is the only moment where we will need root permissions. For
instance, for the gitlab certificate we need `gitlab.crt` and `gitlab.key`:

    # ln -s /home/user/dehydrated/certs/git.exemple.fr/fullchain.pem /etc/gitlab/ssl/gitlab.crt
    # ln -s /home/user/dehydrated/certs/git.exemple.fr/privkey.pem /etc/gitlab/ssl/gitlab.key

Add the following line to the crontab (`crontab -e`):

    0 15 * * * cd /home/user/dehydrated/; ./dehydrated  -c -t dns-01 -k '/home/user/letsencrypt.sh-ovh/ovhdns.py'

## Source

[https://ungeek.fr/letsencrypt-api-ovh/](https://ungeek.fr/letsencrypt-api-ovh/)


# Disqus comments

*This is a copy of the Disqus comments for this page*

 **Christoph Haas - 2017**

> Hi maggick,

> I followed your instructions, the only thing i was uncertain was if I should change ";consumer_key=MA_CLEFS" with the output of "./ovhdns.py --init", then remove the ";" in front.

> I got this error response from the dehydrated-call:
> --- snip ---
> Traceback (most recent call last):
> File "/root/letsencrypt.sh-ovh/ovhdns.py", line 42, in <module>
> target=token)
> File "/usr/local/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/ovh/client.py", line 375, in post
> return self.call('POST', _target, kwargs, _need_auth)
> File "/usr/local/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/ovh/client.py", line 436, in call
> response=result)
> ovh.exceptions.InvalidCredential: This credential is not valid
> OVH-Query-ID: FR.ws-2.58ff13c9.3236.2138
> --- snap ---

> What could be the cause?
>
> TIA
> Christoph.

 **maggick - 2017**

> Yeah you must replace the "consumer_key" parameter with the output of "./ovhdns.py --init".
> It should fix your problem.

**Christoph Haas - 2017**

> after validating the token, I progressed a little bit:
>
> + Responding to challenge for host1.intern.somewithovhhos......
> + Responding to challenge for host2.intern.somewithovhhos......
> + Challenge is valid!
> + Requesting certificate...
> + ERROR: An error occurred while sending post-request to https://acme-v01.api.letsen... (Status 403)
>
> Details:
> {
> "type": "urn:acme:error:unauthorized",
> "detail": "Error creating new cert :: authorizations for these names not found or expired: host2.intern.somewithovhhos...",
> "status": 403
> }
>
> Traceback (most recent call last):
> File "/root/letsencrypt.sh-ovh/ovhdns.py", line 56, in <module>
> client.delete('/domain/zone/%s/record/%s' % (basedomain, id_record))
> File "/usr/local/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/ovh/client.py", line 385, in delete
> return self.call('DELETE', _target, None, _need_auth)
> File "/usr/local/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/ovh/client.py", line 441, in call
> response=result)
> ovh.exceptions.ResourceNotFoundError: This service does not exist
>
> nor certificate for "host1.intern.somewithovhhos..." nor for "host2.intern.somewithovhhos..." is generated.
> Christoph.

 **maggick - 2017**

> I just test the process again. It still work.
> According to the error message you cannot modify the DNS. If you follow the process you should have the permissions.
