Title:Installing OSBM without installer
Date: 04-14-2016 23:49
category:programming
tags:osmc, raspberry, smb
meta:osmc, raspberry, smb

I bought the new raspberry pi 3 with integrated Wi-Fi. Currently I still have a
Ethernet cable running through my living room to my old raspberry pi 1.

Just willing to download the last raspbmc version I figured that it was no more
raspbmc but osmc which is basically the same but with much marketing around it.
The most annoying one is that you need to install an install (such meta). I was
pretty much it was not really necessary and moreover there is no version of the
installer for Arch Linux.

<!-- PELICAN_END_SUMMARY -->

So instead using their installer you can download directly the image (you need to
click a button to display it) by selecting the right device and the last monthly
version.

After the download just decompress the archive:

    gunzip OSMC_TGT_rbp2_20160403.img.gz

Now you will need to know on which device is the sdcard. On Arch Linux with
system d, you may use `dmesg` to have some info:


    [  953.910932] mmc0: new high speed SDHC card at address e624
    [  953.973940] mmcblk0: mmc0:e624 SD04G 3.69 GiB
    [  953.982627]  mmcblk0: p1 p2

On my own computer the sdcard is named mmcblk0 and have two partition `p1` and
`p2`. From there you just need to copy the image to your sdcard (be sure to
remove the `p1` or `p2` if any, you need to write directly on the disk **NOT**
on the partition):

    dd if=OSMC_TGT_rbp2_20160403.img of=/dev/mmcblk0

Then put the sdcard back on the raspberry pi and OSMC will install itself on the
device. Next it will prompt you with the home screen and guide you through the
first install settings. You will need to set language, location, wireless
password and so on.

If you need to connect to osmc, default username and password are:

    username: osmc
    password: osmc

If you need to add a SMB shared folder with authentication you will need to add
the share normally, get the error and then directly connect to the OSMC with
SSH and modify the XML file located at `home/osmc/.kodi/userdata/sources.xml` by
adding the user and password as in the following:

    <sources>
        ...
        <video>
            <default pathversion="1"></default>
            <source>
                <name>Prime</name>
                <path pathversion="1">smb://user:password@10.0.0.111/video/</path>
            </source>
        </video>
        ...
    </sources>

Save, **REBOOT**, and it will work.

Thanks to
[http://codetitans.pl](http://codetitans.pl/blog/post/osmc--smb-share-with-credentials)
for this last part.
