source/about/website.html.markdown, before:

---
title: About This website
---

# About This Website

This is my newest version of my website published the 5 November 2012. 

## History

This is the third version of this website :

* The first version was an home made website. Entirely write in HTML, CSS and PHP. It was a great exercise to learn the base of web 3-tier architecture with a client, a server and a database.
* The second version was powered by Word Press. In fact this was a classic WP with a plug-in for multi-languages and some simple changes in the default pages style.

With this Word Press version I always have to use the online interface to create or update articles and pages. Moreover the data were on the site database, meaning that as I was not saving them, they were not backup as my usual data.      
With this new version, I write pages in <a href="https://github.com/github/markup#readme">Markdown format</a> directly on my computer with my favorite text editor, commit them on GitHub and finally put them on the server. There is no more database (meaning no more commentary, see the <a href="/about/me/">About Me section</a> for contact). The site is entirely static.

## language

You may have notice that I am no more using French for my website. This is a arbitrary choice based on the visits statistics obtain via Google analytics. I you really need a French translation, just <a href="/about/me/#Contact">contact me</a>.

## Technically

This website was realized using <a href="http://www.middlemanapp.com">Middleman</a> a static site generator in Perl.
I could have used an other generator like <a href="https://github.com/hyde/hyde">Hyde</a> in python or <a href="https://github.com/mojombo/jekyll">Jekyll</a> in Ruby but I choose middleman to start.

## License

This website by <a href="www.matthieu-keller.info">Matthieu Keller</a> is licensed under a <a href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/deed.en_US">Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License</a>.<br/>
Based on a work at <a href="http://middlemanapp.com/">http://middlemanapp.com/</a>.

## Thanks

A great thanks to all the Middleman Team for there amazing work !

Commit message:

htlm5 validated, css in progress

source/about/website.html.markdown, after:

---
title: About This website
---

# About This Website

This is my newest version of my website published the 5 November 2012. 
It is <a href="http://validator.w3.org/check?uri=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.matthieu-keller.info%2F">HTML5 valid</a>.
The CSS validation is in progress.

## History

This is the third version of this website :

* The first version was an home made website. Entirely write in HTML, CSS and PHP. It was a great exercise to learn the base of web 3-tier architecture with a client, a server and a database.
* The second version was powered by Word Press. In fact this was a classic WP with a plug-in for multi-languages and some simple changes in the default pages style.

With this Word Press version I always have to use the online interface to create or update articles and pages. Moreover the data were on the site database, meaning that as I was not saving them, they were not backup as my usual data.      
With this new version, I write pages in <a href="https://github.com/github/markup#readme">Markdown format</a> directly on my computer with my favorite text editor, commit them on GitHub and finally put them on the server. There is no more database (meaning no more commentary, see the <a href="/about/me/">About Me section</a> for contact). The site is entirely static.

## language

You may have notice that I am no more using French for my website. This is a arbitrary choice based on the visits statistics obtain via Google analytics. I you really need a French translation, just <a href="/about/me/#Contact">contact me</a>.

## Technically

This website was realized using <a href="http://www.middlemanapp.com">Middleman</a> a static site generator in Perl.
I could have used an other generator like <a href="https://github.com/hyde/hyde">Hyde</a> in python or <a href="https://github.com/mojombo/jekyll">Jekyll</a> in Ruby but I choose middleman to start.

## License

This website by <a href="www.matthieu-keller.info">Matthieu Keller</a> is licensed under a <a href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/deed.en_US">Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License</a>.<br/>
Based on a work at <a href="http://middlemanapp.com/">http://middlemanapp.com/</a>.

## Thanks

A great thanks to all the Middleman Team for there amazing work !
