content/pages/books.md, before:

Title: Books
Status: hidden

I read some books and sometime I read IT books.
Here is a simple list of the IT books I have read with a commentary for each one
of them.

## Security

### Social Engineering: The Art of Human Hacking
**by Christopher Hadnagy**

This book is really structured and start with the informations gathering and some
basis about human reaction before going to human psychologies and giving use the
tools for social engineering. The end of the books relate some real and very
exciting engagements and finish with prevention and mitigation techniques.

This books is really good and I recommend it to everyone that is concerned with
"human" security, as well as pentester as CSO.

http://www.amazon.com/Social-Engineering-Art-Human-Hacking/dp/0470639539/ref=sr_1_1

### The Hacker Playbook: Practical Guide To Penetration Testing
**by Peter Kim**

As the pentesting world and tools may change very quickly this books may be less
and less accurate through time.

Nevertheless, this books is quit good as it really go through each steps of a
engagement: from discovery to reporting passing by social engineering. Each
chapter presents the necessary tools.

http://www.amazon.com/Hacker-Playbook-Practical-Penetration-Testing/dp/1494932636/ref=sr_1_sc_2

## Robotics

### Learning ROS for Robotics Programming
**by Aaron Martinez and Enrique Fernández**

http://www.amazon.com/Learning-Robotics-Programming-Aaron-Martinez/dp/1782161449/ref=sr_1_1

### Learning ROS for Robotics Programming - Second Edition
**by Enrique Fernandez, Luis Sanchez Crespo, Anil Mahtani and Aaron Martinez**

http://www.amazon.com/Learning-ROS-Robotics-Programming-Second/dp/1783987588/ref=sr_1_3

Commit message:

comment about Learning ROS first edition

content/pages/books.md, after:

Title: Books
Status: hidden

I read some books and sometime I read IT books.
Here is a simple list of the IT books I have read with a commentary for each one
of them.

## Security

### Social Engineering: The Art of Human Hacking
**by Christopher Hadnagy**

This book is really structured and start with the informations gathering and some
basis about human reaction before going to human psychologies and giving use the
tools for social engineering. The end of the books relate some real and very
exciting engagements and finish with prevention and mitigation techniques.

This books is really good and I recommend it to everyone that is concerned with
"human" security, as well as pentester as CSO.

http://www.amazon.com/Social-Engineering-Art-Human-Hacking/dp/0470639539/ref=sr_1_1

### The Hacker Playbook: Practical Guide To Penetration Testing
**by Peter Kim**

As the pentesting world and tools may change very quickly this books may be less
and less accurate through time.

Nevertheless, this books is quit good as it really go through each steps of a
engagement: from discovery to reporting passing by social engineering. Each
chapter presents the necessary tools.

http://www.amazon.com/Hacker-Playbook-Practical-Penetration-Testing/dp/1494932636/ref=sr_1_sc_2

## Robotics

### Learning ROS for Robotics Programming
**by Aaron Martinez and Enrique Fernández**

As the framework has really evolve in the past years, this book is
**deprecated** (see the second edition if interesting).

This book introduce [ROS](http://www.ros.org/): The Robot Operating System.

It goes from the basis with the architecture and the debugging to the computer
vision and the navigations stack.
The book does not dig into one of the subject but is really good to start
learning with ROS.

I am one of the reviewers of this book.

http://www.amazon.com/Learning-Robotics-Programming-Aaron-Martinez/dp/1782161449/ref=sr_1_1

### Learning ROS for Robotics Programming - Second Edition
**by Enrique Fernandez, Luis Sanchez Crespo, Anil Mahtani and Aaron Martinez**

I am one of the reviewers of this book.

http://www.amazon.com/Learning-ROS-Robotics-Programming-Second/dp/1783987588/ref=sr_1_3
